Chris saithrift workflow prose (#23)
Azure/DASH: test/docs/dash-test-workflow-saithrif.md

![dash-test-wflow-saithrift](../images/dash-test-wflow-saithrift.svg)

> The figure above captures some important concepts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The figure above captures some important concepts:
```
The previous figure highlights the following test work-flow important concepts:

Author: How about:
The previous figure highlights the following important test work-flow concepts:

Reviewer: Go ahead and make the change.

* How test cases are represented and executed
* How the abstract SAI interface to the Device Under Test (DUT) is derived
* How the SAI-thrift interface is generated and utilized for testing
* How a traffic generator (and receiver) is used to test the DUT

The descriptions below are listed in rough order of dependency, culminating in the test script itself.

> ### P4 to SAI Interface Transformation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## P4 to SAI Interface Transformation
```

> > **TODO** This could be covered under the [../sirius_pipeline](../sirius_pipeline) directory README.

Reviewer: Do we need this, now?

Author: No, it's a reminder

A P4 program, [sirius_pipeline.p4](../sirius_pipeline.p4), describes the behavior of the sirius dataplane according to the well-known [P4 programming language](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-spec) and associated architectural models. The details are not covered here. Suffice to say the P4 program comprises a "single source of truth" for the dataplane behavior.

Besides describing the dataplane behavior, the P4 source code can be parsed by the community [p4c](https://github.com/p4lang/p4c) compiler and, via a suitable backend (**TODO** - provide link when it becomes part of this repo) it emits [SAI](https://www.opencompute.org/projects/sai) header files describing the abstract dataplane API to the [underlay](../SAI/underlay) portion of the dataplane. The [overlay](../SAI/overlay) portion of the DASH dataplane is a subset of the standard SAI header files, e.g. as typically used by [SONiC](https://azure.github.io/SONiC/).

> Treating the P4 progam as the starting point ensures an unambiguous contract for dataplane behavior. By generating SAI header files directly from the P4 code, we can be assured the programming interface is tightly bound, and agrees to, the behavioral model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Treating the P4 program as the starting point ensures an unambiguous contract for dataplane behavior. By generating SAI header files directly from the P4 code, we can be assured the programming interface is tightly bound, and agrees to the behavioral model.
```

### DASH SAI API
The combination of the underlay and the overlay SAI header files comprise the canonical "DASH API": an abstract dataplane API which exposes [CRUD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete) operations upon canonical tables, which represent the configuration (and in some cases, the state) of the dataplane.

> DASH tests use this API to configure and/or read the state of, the DUT. Therefore, test cases and test scripts will utilize this API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DASH tests use this API to configure and/or read the state of the DUT; therefore, test cases and test scripts will utilize this API.
```

### SAI Thrift RPC Interface

>  Since SAI is defined as a c-language binding (`.h` header files), it's just a "contract;" it is not directly accessible by a test script running in its own process. A remote procedure call interface is required to allow a test program (e.g. a [PyTest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/6.2.x/) script) to "talk" to the DUT. The DUT must expose a server endpoint which can be accessed by the test program over a socket i.e. via an IP `address:port` pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SAI is defined as a c-language binding (`.h` header files), it's just a "contract"; hence it is not directly accessible by a test script running in its own process. A remote procedure call interface is required to allow a test program (e.g., a [PyTest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/6.2.x/) script) to "talk" to the DUT. The DUT must expose a server endpoint which can be accessed by the test program over a socket i.e., via an IP `address:port` pair.
```

>  The DASH project specifies the [saithrift](https://github.com/opencomputeproject/SAI/tree/master/test/saithrift) RPC approach, already used in SONiC testing. The Figure above illustrates the flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The DASH project specifies the [saithrift](https://github.com/opencomputeproject/SAI/tree/master/test/saithrift) RPC approach, already used in SONiC testing. The previous figure illustrates the following flow:
```

 * SAI header files are fed into a saithrift generator toolchain. This is a collection of Perl scripts which generates both client and server [Thrift](https://thrift.apache.org/) code. Thrift is a Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework which uses an Interface Description language (IDL) schema to specify a client-server communications mechanism.
* The saithrift toolchain yields Python client libraries which are imported and used by a test program to make remote SAI calls [**NOTE - diagram missing a label for thrift client lib imported into test script**]; and a server skeleton with RPC callback methods. These callbacks implement all the SAI RPC function signatures (CRUD operations upon all the conceptual SAI tables). These callbacks in turn make function calls into the vendor-supplied SAI library entrypoints, which must be implemented for each target (DUT).

> * Each DASH device vendor must implement a `libsai` shared library, i.e. a compiled `.so` module which can be linked to the server skeleton to produce a running SAI server image. The library has function calls supporting CRUD operations upon each DASH SAI header definition and attribute. The vendor `libsai` function entrypoints translate the abstract SAI CRUD operations into the underlying platform operations, e.g. typically via the vendor's Software Development Kit (SDK) libraries or equivalent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each DASH device vendor must implement a `libsai` shared library, i.e., a compiled `.so` module which can be linked to the server skeleton to produce a running SAI server image. The library has function calls supporting CRUD operations upon each DASH SAI header definition and attribute. The vendor `libsai` function entrypoints translate the abstract SAI CRUD operations into the underlying platform operations, e.g., typically via the vendor's Software Development Kit (SDK) libraries or equivalent. 
```

* The vendor-supplied `libsai` is compiled with the saithrift server skeleton to produce an executable binary file which is a server daemon. When run, this daemon exposes a socket-based API endpoint. This endpoint is the SAI-thrift API server.

> Test programs can perform SAI RPC calls agains the saithrift endpoint. In the figure above, the PyTest test scripts make SAI calls to configure and query the DUT dataplane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test programs can perform SAI RPC calls agains the saithrift endpoint. In the previous figure, the PyTest test scripts make SAI calls to configure and query the DUT dataplane.
```

### Physical or Simulated DUT

> A DUT may be a real hardware device (SmartNIC/DPU/IPU), or a software "simulation" thereof, for example a [P4-DPDK](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-dpdk-target) soft switch, or a [bmv2](https://github.com/p4lang/behavioral-model) model. Simulations will be used as reference targets to cross-check conformance tests and verify DASH SAI APIs. Performance of SW targets are not expected to meet DASH requirements, but nonetheless they serve as useful tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A DUT may be a real hardware device (SmartNIC/DPU/IPU), or a software "simulation", for example a [P4-DPDK](https://github.com/p4lang/p4-dpdk-target) soft switch, or a [bmv2](https://github.com/p4lang/behavioral-model) model. Simulations will be used as reference targets to cross-check conformance tests and verify DASH SAI APIs. Performance of software targets are not expected to meet DASH requirements, but nonetheless they serve as useful tools.
```

### OTG/snappi Traffic Generator

> We test the DUT by configuring it as explained above; then sending it packets into a "front-panel" interace(s); then capturing and analyzing what the device sends back out the front panel interface(s). A Traffic Generator/Analyzer is used to emulate the behavior of many (even thousands) of hosts/servers in the normal datacenter environment. It can generate traffic streams simulating live traffic, capture what comes back, and analyze the results. This is the gist of DASH traffic tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DUT is tested by configuring it as explained before. Then sending packets to it into a "front-panel" interface(s); then capturing and analyzing what the device sends back out the front panel interface(s). A Traffic Generator/Analyzer is used to emulate the behavior of many (even thousands) of hosts/servers in the normal datacenter environment. It can generate traffic streams simulating live traffic, capture what comes back, and analyze the results. **This is the main idea of DASH traffic tests**.
```

> There are many software and hardware based traffic generator/analyzers (nicknamed "Tgens") available in the market or open community, of varying capabilities. To provide a uniform, model-based programming interface and avoid vendor lock-in, DASH has adopted the [Open Traffic Generator (OTG)](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/models) data model for Tgens, and the accompanying [snappi](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/snappi) client SDKs to make test script development more consistent and convenient. This allows for both software- and hardware-based Tgens to be used with minimal script changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many software and hardware-based traffic generator/analyzers (nicknamed "Tgens") available in the market or in the open community, of varying capabilities. To provide a uniform, model-based programming interface and avoid vendor lock-in, DASH has adopted the [Open Traffic Generator (OTG)](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/models) data model for Tgens, and the accompanying [snappi](https://github.com/open-traffic-generator/snappi) client SDKs to make test script development more consistent and convenient. This allows for both software and hardware based Tgens to be used with minimal script changes.
```

### Abstract Test Cases
[Abstract test cases](./sonic-dash-test-HLD.md#data-driven-test-cases) comprise data and/or test script/programs which apply configuration to the DUT; configure a Traffic Generator to send packets to the DUT and capture packets back from the DUT; analyze the results; and compare expected versus actual to produce absolute pass/fail outcomes and/or perhaps performance figures against some standard. These test cases ideally are expressed independently of the precise programming interface of the DUT, and the programming interface of the Traffic Generator. This is discussed further in the [DASH Test High-Level Description](./sonic-dash-test-HLD.md#data-driven-test-cases) document.

The test cases are stored in the GitHub repository and comprise standard DASH test suites. A set of Pytest Test scripts use the test-case data to define a test. As an example, the test data may describe a set of ACL rules to configure the device, in an abstract form (e.g. a JSON file). The ACL rules may specify accept/deny behavior, which the test script can verify.

> ### Finally - Running the test!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Running the test!
```

A test script consumes the test data, configures both the DUT and the traffic generator, and measures the results. The DUT is configured, via saithrift protocol, over a socket to its endpoint; and the Tgen is configured, via OTG/snappi protocol, over a socket to its endpoint. Packets are sent from the Tgen to the DUT, received by the Tgen, and analyzed by the test script.

> ### Recap - Summarizing It All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summarizing It All
```

* DASH dataplane behavior is specified by a "Sirius" P4 behavior model
* The P4 program can generate SAI overlay headers. Combined with a subset of standard SAI underlay headers, we have a complete "DASH API."
* Vendors implement a `libsai` for their device
* The saithrift tool transforms the  SAI headers into a Thrift client library and a Thrift server skeleton.
  * The client [python] library is used by the test script to "talk" to the DUT to configure it.
  * The server skeleton must be linked to the vendor `libsai` to yield a complete server. When executed on the DUT, a client (the test script) can configure the DASH dataplane via SAI API calls transported over the Thrift API.
* Tets cases stored in an abstract format are stored in a catalog of test suites, and read by the test script runner.
* Test scripts consume the test case data and execute code to program the DUT and configure the Traffic Generator to send and receive traffic.
* Test scripts read the results from theTgen (and possibly DUT state queries), analyze against expected results and report test outcomes.

> # References

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## References
```

> **TODO** - summarise useful links cited above

Reviewer: - [CRUD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Create,_read,_update_and_delete)

Author: LGTM
